In this video, I first want to give the stream builder interface another look, I'm not sure if it's
widely used and therefore could easily trip you up on an exam question.
Builder is a generic interface to clear on stream that extends to the consumer interface it inherits
the except abstract method has its own builder abstract method and implements one default method.
The default method is declared as shown here.
You can see this method is self referencing, returning this.
The abstract build method is declared, as shown is they've got a stream of type T being returned from
the build method, so you get a builder from the stream static factory method stream builder and its
API is shown below sea level, a static to an angle brackets streambed, a builder with ten angle brackets.
Then the method name itself, which is builder.
An object that implements the streambed puru is mutable.
Per the travel documentation and only on screen, a stream builder has a life cycle which starts in
a building phase during which elements can be added and then transitions to a built phase after which
elements may not be added.
The build phase begins when the build method is called, which creates an ordered stream whose elements
are the elements that were added to the stream builder in the order they are added back to the code.
Let's create another class in our strange project because this one builder extras.
I the in.
But so this car start off by creating a local variable of type streambed up builder now could have created
a raw type variable.
But in this instance, I'm declaring the builder with the top string because effectively I want to build
a stream of top string.
I then use to build or add method to add three elements in this first instance or redesign the result
of the method to the builder reference.
But although you can do this, it is unnecessary since the builder object is mutable like a string builder,
for example, as opposed to a string whose method results need to be assigned to another string reference
before we then execute the build method, assigning it to a stream of top string and then use the stream
to print out the elements.
Let's run this.
And you can see the airport shows our three elements in the order that they were added to, this all
seems pretty straightforward so far.
But let's continue first.
Let's add another statement.
We'll add this one after the build out Red Sea.
So I added after a night, you could say that by doing that, I've introduced to compile time error.
Required string provided, but it is important to know that if you've taught your builder, as I've
done about online 15, then you get the benefits of compile time checking.
So let's undo that.
Next, let's go down to the last line here and paste in this code that this code compiles.
But if I run it or form that, it throws an exception.
You can see the exception there, illegal state exception, once you invoke the build method, as we've
already done online 20, it can no longer add elements to build up.
So I'm going to do that last line again.
So let's look at a variation of using the builder method.
Perhaps I'm going to pay some in.
In this instance, I'm using a rope order and you can see that I'm able to add both a String A as well
as an object online 26.
So the code compiles if we run it.
We say that it executes as well and there's no output, so what's the lesson here?
Well, let's actually do something with a stream S2 that was built using the builder.
So that is code.
So we executed the code reminds us why typing the border is important, although I'm able to assign
the result a builder to build to a stream, top to string, which was set up a line twenty seven, an
error won't actually occur until runtime.
Well, we got the class caste exception so that I do not have the same problem if I use method training.
Let's go back and have a look at that and replace that whole sequence of code there.
So this makes the issue an integer added to what I expect to be a stream of string even harder to catch.
So you can see what I've done there about a string, but also an int, which will be wrapped to an integer
object if I run this.
You can say that in this case, the code actually works fine, now you can top the people to here even
in a chain like this.
So let's alter this code.
I'm going to commit that out.
We'll paste in some additional code here.
I can see the difference.
Let's say that I've talked the data string and now we've got a compiler error when trying to add the
intent of this chain record string provider with it.
So let's change the tenter based at the code compiles and executes.
And that works.
Now, don't forget the topping on the right side of the assignment and assigning a torero type has the
same effect as not typing at all, that's Penson code to a review that they're looking at this code.
Can you guess what the output of the code is?
Let's run it to see.
Well, if he gets to class caste exception, he'll correct.
So make sure when you review sample code on an exam question which uses Streambed Computer, that you
examine it closely, there are two types that matter.
The builder type, either by typing the local variable is in the stream.
The builder method result is assigned to or by typing the method invocation stream dot and the top brackets
builder.
If either of these is omitted, you won't get a compile time error, but you may get a class cast exception
when executing.
And remember, you cannot use the ADD method once you've invoked the build method.
This produces an illegal state exception and not a compiler error.
So let's revisit intermediate operations for a moment.
And like an instance of BURA, which contains mutable data and whose ad operation returns itself reference
a strange intermediate operations, return a new stream.
Now, this is very sorrowing code.
So did in your class for this book called This One Stream Extras.
At first glance, you'd assume this card was simply print the numbers 10 and 20 each on its own line
right now you do get a warning from intelligence.
Without a doubt, limited is ignored, but let's ignore that you won't have your idea on the exam now
executing this code actually gives us the following.
So, in fact, it gives us an exception, a legal state exception to the actual error.
Stream has already been operated upon or closed.
It probably doesn't lend much clarity to what's wrong.
Let's change some code here.
Specifically, what I'm going to do is make a change on line 16 input stream equals stream limit to
now if you run this.
All is right in the world and the output is the result you expected it to be.
Again, on the exam review closely the invocation of intermediate operations on a stream that are not
part of a chain, if the intermediate operation is not being assigned back to the original stream reference,
an exception will be thrown for any other operation on the same stream reference.
Right.
So finish the video here.
And in the next one, let's look at the concat method on stream.
See you in the next video.